feat: document NpmPackage npm assets (#4513)
vaadin/docs: articles/styling/advanced/npm-packages.adoc

}
----

[since:com.vaadin:vaadin@V24.9]
[#fonts-and-images-from-npm-with-npmpackage-annotation]

> == Loading Fonts and Images from npm Packages Using the NpmPackage annotation

Author: I'll test around a bit and add the information to the document.

> == Loading Fonts and Images from npm Packages Using the NpmPackage annotation

Reviewer: Thanks for checking! Previously people could it also like this:

```json
{
  "parent": "my-base-theme",
  "importCss": ["@fortawesome/fontawesome-free/css/all.min.css"],
  "lumoImports": ["typography","color","spacing","badge","utility"]
}

```

== Loading Fonts and Images from npm Packages Using the NpmPackage annotation

[annotationname]`NpmPackage` has the field `assets` that makes it possible to copy assets from npm packages without the need for a custom theme or the `theme.json` file.

The difference between using the `theme.json` and annotation `assets` is the location.
Theme copies under the custom theme folder, but the annotation copies to the static folder.

The syntax for [annotationname]`NpmPackage` is the same as used for `theme.json`, `"asset/glob/pattern:local/target/path"`.
Multiple assets can be given for a single package annotation.

.Sample asset mapping with `NpmPackage` annotation
[source,java]
----
@NpmPackage(value = "@fortawesome/fontawesome-free", version = "5.15.1",
    assets = {
        "svgs/regular/**:fontawesome/icons"
    })
@Tag("my-component")
public class MyComponent implements Component {
    public MyComponent() {
        add(new Image("VAADIN/static/fontawesome/icons/snowflake.svg",
            "snowflake"));
    }
}
----

[NOTE]
The assets from the [annotationname]`NpmPackage` annotation are copied to the static folder `VAADIN/static` instead of `VAADIN/static/themes/[themeName]/`

> In the sample case the `fortawesome` file `svgs/regular/snowflake.svg` is copied to `VAADIN/static/fontawesome/icons/snowflake.svg` and should be called by that path in the application and css.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the sample case the `svgs/regular/snowflake.svg` file from the `fortawesome` package is copied to `VAADIN/static/fontawesome/icons/snowflake.svg` and you should reference it with that path in the application code, including CSS stylesheets.
```

> This difference is due to the custom theme call having the `themes/[themeName]/` in the request letting us know it is a theme resource, making it possible to prepend the static part.

Reviewer 2: Is ThemeResource still a thing, even after the deprecation of the ´@Theme` annotation? Also, talking about a “custom theme” might be problematic, referring to the old theme mechanics, rather than just regular stylesheets.

```suggestion
This difference is due to the custom theme call having the `themes/[themeName]/` in the request letting Vaadin know it's a theme resource, making it possible to prepend the static part.
```

Reviewer 3: Theme annotation will be deprecated along the `themes/[themeName]` path but it's still supported. After deprecation, "theme resource folder" is relevant only for apps still using it. For those it's "custom theme" and for new apps it's just regular css.

This article could have a reference to https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/styling/advanced/npm-packages#styles-from-npm to make it clearer what "custom theme" mean.
